.TH man 1 "2025-03-27" "0.15.0" "Profanity XMPP client"

.SH NAME
/pgp

.SH DESCRIPTION
Open PGP commands to manage keys, and perform PGP encryption during chat sessions. See the /account command to set your own PGP key.

.SH SYNOPSIS
/pgp libver

.LP
/pgp keys

.LP
/pgp contacts

.LP
/pgp setkey <contact> <keyid>

.LP
/pgp start [<contact>]

.LP
/pgp end

.LP
/pgp log on|off|redact

.LP
/pgp char <char>

.LP
/pgp sendfile on|off

.LP
/pgp sendpub [<contact>]

.LP

.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
\fBlibver\fR
.RS 4
Show which version of the libgpgme library is being used.
.RE
.PP
\fBkeys\fR
.RS 4
List all keys known to the system.
.RE
.PP
\fBcontacts\fR
.RS 4
Show contacts with assigned public keys.
.RE
.PP
\fBsetkey <contact> <keyid>\fR
.RS 4
Manually associate a contact with a public key.
.RE
.PP
\fBstart [<contact>]\fR
.RS 4
Start PGP encrypted chat, current contact will be used if not specified.
.RE
.PP
\fBend\fR
.RS 4
End PGP encrypted chat with the current recipient.
.RE
.PP
\fBlog on|off\fR
.RS 4
Enable or disable plaintext logging of PGP encrypted messages.
.RE
.PP
\fBlog redact\fR
.RS 4
Log PGP encrypted messages, but replace the contents with [redacted]. This is the default.
.RE
.PP
\fBchar <char>\fR
.RS 4
Set the character to be displayed next to PGP encrypted messages.
.RE
.PP
\fBsendfile on|off\fR
.RS 4
Allow /sendfile to send unencrypted files while otherwise using PGP.
.RE
.PP
\fBautoimport on|off\fR
.RS 4
Autoimport PGP keys from messages.
.RE
.PP
\fBsendpub [<contact>]\fR
.RS 4
Sends a message to the current recipient with your PGP public key, current contact will be used if not specified.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
/pgp log off

.LP
/pgp setkey odin@valhalla.edda BA19CACE5A9592C5

.LP
/pgp start odin@valhalla.edda

.LP
/pgp end

.LP
/pgp char P

.LP
