.TH man 1 "2021-07-14" "0.10.0" "Profanity XMPP client"

.SH NAME
/occupants

.SH DESCRIPTION
Show or hide room occupants, and occupants panel display settings.

.SH SYNOPSIS
/occupants show|hide [jid|offline]

.LP
/occupants char <char>|none

.LP
/occupants color on|off

.LP
/occupants default show|hide [jid|offline]

.LP
/occupants size [<percent>]

.LP
/occupants indent <indent>

.LP
/occupants header char <char>|none

.LP
/occupants wrap on|off

.LP

.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
\fBshow\fR
.RS 4
Show the occupants panel in current room.
.RE
.PP
\fBchar <char>\fR
.RS 4
Prefix occupants with specified character.
.RE
.PP
\fBchar none\fR
.RS 4
Remove occupants character prefix.
.RE
.PP
\fBcolor on\fR
.RS 4
Enable generated color names (XEP-0392) for occupants
.RE
.PP
\fBcolor off\fR
.RS 4
Disable generated color names (XEP-0392) for occupants
.RE
.PP
\fBhide\fR
.RS 4
Hide the occupants panel in current room.
.RE
.PP
\fBshow jid\fR
.RS 4
Show jid in the occupants panel in current room.
.RE
.PP
\fBhide jid\fR
.RS 4
Hide jid in the occupants panel in current room.
.RE
.PP
\fBshow offline\fR
.RS 4
Show offline occupants panel in current room.
.RE
.PP
\fBhide offline\fR
.RS 4
Hide offline occupants panel in current room.
.RE
.PP
\fBdefault show|hide\fR
.RS 4
Whether occupants are shown by default in new rooms.
.RE
.PP
\fBdefault show|hide jid\fR
.RS 4
Whether occupants jids are shown by default in new rooms.
.RE
.PP
\fBdefault show|hide offline\fR
.RS 4
Whether offline occupants are shown by default in new rooms.
.RE
.PP
\fBsize <percent>\fR
.RS 4
Percentage of the screen taken by the occupants list in rooms (1-99).
.RE
.PP
\fBindent <indent>\fR
.RS 4
Indent contact line by <indent> spaces (0 to 10).
.RE
.PP
\fBheader char <char>\fR
.RS 4
Prefix occupants headers with specified character.
.RE
.PP
\fBheader char none\fR
.RS 4
Remove occupants header character prefix.
.RE
.PP
\fBwrap on|off\fR
.RS 4
Enable or disable line wrapping in occupants panel.
.RE
