.TH man 1 "2022-04-04" "0.12.0" "Profanity XMPP client"

.SH NAME
/bookmark

.SH DESCRIPTION
Manage bookmarks and join bookmarked rooms. If you are in a chat room and no arguments are supplied to `/bookmark add`, autojoin is set to "on". There is also an autojoin ignore list in case you want to autojoin in many clients but not on Profanity. 

.SH SYNOPSIS
/bookmark

.LP
/bookmark list [<jid>]

.LP
/bookmark add [<room>] [nick <nick>] [password <password>] [name <roomname>] [autojoin on|off]

.LP
/bookmark update <room> [nick <nick>] [password <password>] [name <roomname>] [autojoin on|off]

.LP
/bookmark remove [<room>]

.LP
/bookmark join <room>

.LP
/bookmark invites on|off

.LP
/bookmark ignore

.LP
/bookmark ignore add <jid>

.LP
/bookmark ignore remove <jid>

.LP

.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
\fBlist [<jid>]\fR
.RS 4
List all bookmarks. Or the details of one.
.RE
.PP
\fBadd [<room>]\fR
.RS 4
Add a bookmark, passing no room will bookmark the current room, setting autojoin to "on".
.RE
.PP
\fBremove [<room>]\fR
.RS 4
Remove a bookmark, passing no room will remove the bookmark for the current room, if one exists.
.RE
.PP
\fBupdate <room>\fR
.RS 4
Update the properties associated with a bookmark.
.RE
.PP
\fBnick <nick>\fR
.RS 4
Nickname used when joining the chat room.
.RE
.PP
\fBpassword <password>\fR
.RS 4
Password if required, may be stored in plaintext on your server.
.RE
.PP
\fBname <roomname>\fR
.RS 4
Optional name for the bookmark. By default localpart of the JID will be used.
.RE
.PP
\fBautojoin on|off\fR
.RS 4
Whether to join the room automatically on login.
.RE
.PP
\fBjoin <room>\fR
.RS 4
Join room using the properties associated with the bookmark.
.RE
.PP
\fBinvites on|off\fR
.RS 4
Whether or not to bookmark accepted room invites, defaults to 'on'.
.RE
.PP
\fBignore add <barejid>\fR
.RS 4
Add a bookmark to the autojoin ignore list.
.RE
.PP
\fBignore remove <barejid>\fR
.RS 4
Remove a bookmark from the autojoin ignore list.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
/bookmark add room@example.com nick YOURNICK

.LP
/bookmark join room@example.com

.LP
/bookmark update room@example.com nick NEWNICK autojoin on

.LP
/bookmark ignore room@example.com

.LP
/bookmark list

.LP
/bookmark list room@example.com

.LP
/bookmark remove room@example.com

.LP
