.TH man 1 "2022-10-12" "0.13.1" "Profanity XMPP client"
.SH NAME
Profanity \- a simple console based XMPP chat client.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ie "\f[CB]x\f[]"x" \{\
. ftr V B
. ftr VI BI
. ftr VB B
. ftr VBI BI
.\}
.el \{\
. ftr V CR
. ftr VI CI
. ftr VB CB
. ftr VBI CBI
.\}
.PP
This man page is intended to help you set up XEP-0374: OpenPGP for XMPP
Instant Messaging.
Also known as OX.
.PP
For details on usage see man profanity-ox or \f[V]/help ox\f[R].
.PP
Profanity wants to give the user a maximum freedom in setting up their
system.
So we won\[cq]t touch your GPG settings directly.
Which means you will need to do some manual steps.
They are described here
.SH Generate OpenPGP key materials
.PP
The first step is to create a OpenPGP key pair.
The key pair generation will be done with the \f[V]gpg\f[R] command of
GnuPG.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
gpg --quick-generate-key xmpp:alice\[at]domain.tld future-default default 3y
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
This command will generated a OpenPGP key with a UID
\f[V]xmpp:alice\[at]domain.tld\f[R].
The option \f[V]future-default\f[R] has been used to generate a
ed25519/cv25519 key.
The key is set to expire in threeyears.
.PP
Replace the Jabber ID with your JID and do \f[B]not\f[R] forget the URI
\f[V]xmpp:\f[R] prefix.
.PP
Example output:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
pub   ed25519 2021-09-21 [SC] [verf\[:a]llt: 2024-09-20]
      583BAE703A801095B6B71A56BD801174B1A0B84A
uid                      xmpp:alice\[at]domain.tld
sub   cv25519 2021-09-21 [E]
\f[R]
.fi
.SH Export your public key
.PP
You need to export your public key so you can later upload it into a PEP
node.
It\[cq]s just a way how your chat partners can retrieve the public key
from you.
Use the command below to export public key:
.PP
Example command:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
gpg --export \[rs]
  --export-options export-minimal \[rs]
  --export-filter \[aq]keep-uid=uid =\[ti] xmpp:alice\[at]domain.tld\[aq] \[rs]
  --export-filter \[aq]drop-subkey=usage =\[ti] a\[aq] \[rs]
  583BAE703A801095B6B71A56BD801174B1A0B84A \[rs]
  > /tmp/pep-key.gpg
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
The key will be exported to \f[V]/tmp/pep-key.gpg\f[R].
You may check the key with the command below:
.PP
\f[V]gpg --show-key --with-sig-list /tmp/pep-key.gpg\f[R]
.PP
Keep in mind: Public keys may have some information (signatures, name,
e-mail address).
Be careful which data will be exported.
The \f[V]export-options\f[R] and \f[V]export-filter\f[R] option of GnuPG
will help you to filter the data.
.SH Publish your key
.PP
You can use profanity to publish your exported key into your account
(PEP).
The \f[V]/ox announce\f[R] command will publish your key.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
/ox announce /tmp/pep-key.gpg
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
The command will create two PEP node records to store the key.
.SH Discover keys
.PP
To discover public keys of your partners use the \f[V]/ox discover\f[R]
command.
.PP
Example output:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
/ox discover buddy\[at]domain.tld
Discovering Public Key for buddy\[at]domain.tld 
1234567890ABCDEF1234567890ABCDEF12345678
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
To request and import a key, you can use the \f[V]/ox request\f[R]
command.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
/ox request buddy\[at]domain.tld 1234567890ABCDEF1234567890ABCDEF12345678
Requesting Public Key 1234567890ABCDEF1234567890ABCDEF12345678 for buddy\[at]domain.tld
Public Key imported 
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
The key will be imported into your gnupg keyring.
.SH Sign the imported key
.PP
The key can been shown via gpg
\f[V]gpg -k xmpp:buddy\[at]domain.tld\f[R].
Make sure the key is the key of your buddy and sign the key with your
key.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
gpg --ask-cert-level --default-key 583BAE703A801095B6B71A56BD801174B1A0B84A --sign-key 1234567890ABCDEF1234567890ABCDEF12345678
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
The command \f[V]/ox contacts\f[R] will show the keys with XMPP-UID.
The command \f[V]/ox keys\f[R] will show all known OpenPGP keys.
.PP
Only once you signed the key you can actually use OX with your partner.
.SH Use OX
.PP
Within a chat window you can start OX via \f[V]/ox start\f[R] and stop
it via \f[V]/ox end\f[R].
.PP
Messages will be send signed and encrypted.
