.TH man 1 "2021-01-09" "0.10.0" "Profanity XMPP client"

.SH NAME
/notify

.SH DESCRIPTION
Configure desktop notifications. To configure presence update messages in the console, chat and chat room windows, see '/help presence'.

.SH SYNOPSIS
/notify chat on|off

.LP
/notify chat current on|off

.LP
/notify chat text on|off

.LP
/notify room on|off

.LP
/notify room mention on|off

.LP
/notify room mention case_sensitive|case_insensitive

.LP
/notify room mention word_whole|word_part

.LP
/notify room current on|off

.LP
/notify room text on|off

.LP
/notify room trigger add <text>

.LP
/notify room trigger remove <text>

.LP
/notify room trigger list

.LP
/notify room trigger on|off

.LP
/notify on|off

.LP
/notify mention on|off

.LP
/notify trigger on|off

.LP
/notify reset

.LP
/notify remind <seconds>

.LP
/notify typing on|off

.LP
/notify typing current on|off

.LP
/notify invite on|off

.LP
/notify sub on|off

.LP

.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
\fBchat on|off\fR
.RS 4
Notifications for regular chat messages.
.RE
.PP
\fBchat current on|off\fR
.RS 4
Whether to show regular chat message notifications when the window is focused.
.RE
.PP
\fBchat text on|off\fR
.RS 4
Show message text in regular message notifications.
.RE
.PP
\fBroom on|off\fR
.RS 4
Notifications for all chat room messages.
.RE
.PP
\fBroom mention on|off\fR
.RS 4
Notifications for chat room messages when your nick is mentioned.
.RE
.PP
\fBroom mention case_sensitive\fR
.RS 4
Set room mention notifications as case sensitive.
.RE
.PP
\fBroom mention case_insensitive\fR
.RS 4
Set room mention notifications as case insensitive.
.RE
.PP
\fBroom mention word_whole\fR
.RS 4
Set room mention notifications only on whole word match, i.e. when nickname is not part of a larger word.
.RE
.PP
\fBroom mention word_part\fR
.RS 4
Set room mention notifications on partial word match, i.e. nickname may be part of a larger word.
.RE
.PP
\fBroom current on|off\fR
.RS 4
Whether to show all chat room messages notifications when the window is focused.
.RE
.PP
\fBroom text on|off\fR
.RS 4
Show message text in chat room message notifications.
.RE
.PP
\fBroom trigger add <text>\fR
.RS 4
Notify when specified text included in all chat room messages.
.RE
.PP
\fBroom trigger remove <text>\fR
.RS 4
Remove chat room notification trigger.
.RE
.PP
\fBroom trigger list\fR
.RS 4
List all chat room highlight triggers.
.RE
.PP
\fBroom trigger on|off\fR
.RS 4
Enable or disable all chat room notification triggers.
.RE
.PP
\fBon|off\fR
.RS 4
Override the global message setting for the current chat room.
.RE
.PP
\fBmention on|off\fR
.RS 4
Override the global 'mention' setting for the current chat room.
.RE
.PP
\fBtrigger on|off\fR
.RS 4
Override the global 'trigger' setting for the current chat room.
.RE
.PP
\fBreset\fR
.RS 4
Reset to global notification settings for the current chat room.
.RE
.PP
\fBremind <seconds>\fR
.RS 4
Notification reminder period for unread messages, use 0 to disable.
.RE
.PP
\fBtyping on|off\fR
.RS 4
Notifications when contacts are typing.
.RE
.PP
\fBtyping current on|off\fR
.RS 4
Whether typing notifications are triggered for the current window.
.RE
.PP
\fBinvite on|off\fR
.RS 4
Notifications for chat room invites.
.RE
.PP
\fBsub on|off\fR
.RS 4
Notifications for subscription requests.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
/notify chat on

.LP
/notify chat text on

.LP
/notify room mention on

.LP
/notify room trigger add beer

.LP
/notify room trigger on

.LP
/notify room current off

.LP
/notify room text off

.LP
/notify remind 60

.LP
/notify typing on

.LP
/notify invite on

.LP
